
# Brewed in the Apocalypse - Strong

This is a role playing game for 3-6 persons. One person will be called
"Scenarist", while the others will be called "Players".

__Setup__ The players write 8 traits on the character sheet, then they write
the character name.  They should also keep some space for harms, notes, and
anything else asked by the scenarist.

__Traits__ A trait is a word, or a very small sentence, that describe a
quality, an ability, or a tendency of the character.  They describe how the
characters can act in the fiction. No problem in opposite traits: the players
can act using one and ignore the other as they like. The traits will give the
players a mechanical bonus to any roll when acting according to the traits.

When adding a trait: it must conceptually linked to 2 previous ones (skip this
for the first 4 traits); the same trait can not be repeated for the same
character; delete an old trait when there are more than 16.

__Harms__ An harm is a word or small sentence that represent physical injuries,
mental stress, or any other negative condition that make sense for the
ambientation.  It should also cause effects in the fiction. Each harm has a
number associated to it, from 0 up, that indicate how much will affect the roll.

The harms can be decreased, or removed if reach 0, when something happens in
the fiction that can cure or treat the status associated to the harms.

__Item, abilities, etc__ During the game the scenarist may ask to write or
modify other things in the character sheet. If the scenarist do not give them
explicit mechanics they act only in fiction. In any case the scenarist can
consider them when deciding if a roll is needed, and to decide the consequences
of the roll.

__Playing the game__ The scenarist will describe a scene, the players will say
as their character acts. The scenarist will also tell how the rest of the world
react to the character action.

When the characters do something risky or that has uncertain consequences, the
scenarist will ask the player to roll. The scenarist can skip this if chance
of failing or succeeding are too small, or if the consequences of failing are
not interesting. This is valid also for action that may cure the harms: if they
are very likely to succeed, skip the  roll.

To handle the difficulty of an action, the scenarist can split it in multiple
roll, justifying it in the fiction. The scenarist can also make clear that due
to the danger of the situation, the consequences will be very heavy. Also
multiple harm increase are possible.

__Experience__ When something important happen in the fiction, the scenarist
will ask to all the players do add a new trait to the character.

__Roll__ When the roll is needed, the scenarist decides which harms of the
character are relevant while the player selects the relevant traits.  Then the
player rolls 2 standard 6-side dices, sums the results, adds the number of
traits and subtracts the total value of the harms. The result will determinate
the outcome of the action:

- 12 or more is a full success, the scenarist will tell how the character
  reached the goal; if applicable something good may happen too e.g. object
  discovered, new information, new status, etc.
- 9-10-11 is a weak result, the scenarist may decide to let the characters fail
  but giving some compensation, or to let they succeed with a complication that
  the players can react to.
- 8 or less is a failure, the scenarist will tell how the character failed, and
  a trouble will happen that is irrevocable, i.e. the player can not avoid it
  reacting in any way.

As part of the complication or the trouble, the scenarist may assign or
increment by 1 a character's harm.

__Release__ v0.1 released in 2023  under [Creative Common 0](https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/public-domain/cc0/)

